what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose today I'm
going to be doing the long-awaited
highly requested episode which is going
on a deep dive or in-depth look at
another section of mutant cats today I'm
going to be doing the verbal reasoning
section because a whole bunch of you
guys have been asking for it in the
YouTube comments
on Instagram and even on the student
room so something that you guys think is
gonna be useful and I want to make it
for you and hopefully it is before we
start the video if you guys want to
follow me on instagram you can do so on
my karma medic page I'm posting updates
there about my work as a researcher in
the summer and once school starts again
in September I'm gonna be posting about
a year two clinics KCl Medical School so
if that's something you guys might be
interested in feel free to follow me
there so yeah let's just jump right into
it okay verbal reasoning so how this
video is gonna work is I want to talk a
little bit about the verbal reasoning
section some tips some advice on
specifically this section and then after
that I'm gonna solve a couple of
questions on camera and I'll have a
screen recording of my computer while I
do that so you guys can follow my trail
of thought and what I'm thinking as I
solve the questions live now keep in
mind I haven't done the UK cat since
late 2016 so I've been seeing these
questions in a long time I'm gonna be
doing them live so if it takes me a bit
of time or I get something wrong don't
crucify me I'm gonna do my best so a
couple of things about verbal reasoning
in my opinion verbal reasoning sucks
it's something that is really difficult
to learn in a short period of time it's
difficult to improve a lot and become
very good reading actively and improving
your comprehension and just taking away
the key points from a passage so for me
it was definitely the most difficult
section especially because I didn't read
much as a kid but if you practice enough
you can definitely improve and you can
train your mind to read the passage
quickly and obtain as much important
information as you can so when I did the
UK count while my strategy was was to
browse the question first and then go to
the passage and look for the keywords
that correspond to that question in
retrospect I don't think this was such a
good idea and I think that I might have
benefited more if I actually did the
reading of the passage first and tried
to actively retain as much information
as possible and then jump to the
question and tried to match whatever was
relevant
however this really is a personal thing
so I would recommend that you try both
if you're unsure and see what works for
you when you're reading through the
passage of course you're under a lot of
time pressures
you need to read it fast but there's no
point in reading it fast if you don't
remember anything so I'd rather you guys
read it a little bit slower but actually
remembered where everything was instead
of just skimming through it and jumping
through the passage when you're reading
through the passage you want to pay
extra attention to things like names
dates places people any shifts in the
way of thinking or any shifts in history
something like that something that they
could ask a question on you want to make
sure you pay attention to those things
most second of all there are only three
possible answers for this section
it's either true/false or cannot tell so
make sure you know what true means what
false means and what can't tell means
true just means that the passage states
something exactly the same that the
question is the same as the passage
false means it's that the opposite its
it tells you that it's not true and the
difference between false and can tell is
whereas false
tells you it's not true can't tell you
you cannot make a conclusion or you
cannot decide based on the information
in the passage so I think that's all I
want to say about verbal reasoning
general tips I think it really is a game
of practicing this type of question and
practicing reading the passages fast
while actively remembering as much as
you can so let's jump over to my
computer screen and get started with
that so this is the UK comp practice
test see I got it I found it on the
official UK count website make sure you
guys do these practice questions before
your actual exam because it's gonna be a
pretty good representation of what the
actual exam is gonna be like but make
sure you do it after you've done a
significant amount of practice so that
it can be a good estimate of what your
score might be on the real exam don't
take it too seriously though anything
can happen on exam day and questions
might be significantly easier than you
used to so don't put too much waiting on
this it's just good practice I'm gonna
read this passage this is the first
passage in the verbal section of
practice test C I'm gonna read it out
loud so that I can show you guys how I'm
kind of reading the passage what pace
and what words I'm picking up I'm gonna
read the passage as quickly as I can
while picking up the important
information and then I'm gonna move on
to the question so New Year's Day March
25th Christians called lady-day they
believed it was virgin mary in nine
months time seems logical dates on a
year middle ages people whose Julian
Julian replaced the Roman 360 with the
solder counted the Earth's rotation was
blah blah he included a leap day once
before she was a mistake
the solar is this is calendar one extra
day 1:28 inaccurate today my think it's
very important about Sears for devout
Christians 1582 Pope Gregory Christians
celebrate Christmas and Easter on the
correct
Caesar Gregory Solar Gregory retained
leap but not first century that could
not be divided by 400 because Gregory
was a Catholic Protestant England
Holland rejected the calendar has been
problems portrayed in contact UK adopted
Gregorian the New Year's was moved to
journey first as a one-off 9 1750 to
March 25th is called by April today only
the taxman UK taxman New Year's Day to
start the tax year ok so I read that if
you read through that pretty quick it's
not gonna make a lot of sense out loud
but I just skipped all the words like
the day he/she in out whatever and I
just tried to take the most important
things like if we go through that again
things that I paid special attention to
New Year's Christian Virgin Mary 9 Jesus
launched a cool Middle Ages Julian
replaced 360 solar leap day for years
Cesar was mistaken things like
inaccurate important Christians Pope
Gregory so you get the point I'm keeping
track of names dates places anything
that I think a question could be asked
from now let's jump to the question
first question the Gregorian calendar
has an extra leap day every 128 years so
what I'm taking from this question is
Gregorian Gregorian extra leap day and
128 so I'm gonna go back to the passage
and see why I find those things so a
very quick scan is gonna take me to ok
here Gregory 128 years here and leap day
was somewhere here I believe here leap
year okay so Gregorian calendar had an
extra lead every 128 so his Condor had
one extra day every 128 okay but that
doesn't have anything through leap year
Gregory retained leap years but not
first century dates
okay so Gregory retained leap years but
not for century days that could not be
divided so does he have an extra leap
day no he kept leap years and if
anything
he didn't he remove them for days I
could not be divided by 400 so he didn't
add an extra one he removed it if
anything so this statement is false did
were going in at an extra day
no he removed a day or more than one day
I'm not entirely sure but all I need to
know is he didn't add an extra day so to
answer this question like for something
to be false you just have to know that
it like any part of the statement is not
true means it's automatically false it
came so did he add going has an extra
leap day so did he add a year no he
didn't so it's immediately false okay
next question
Protestants wanted to keep the old
Julian calendar because they believed it
was the one Jesus used
okay so Protestants Protestant countries
like England hone rejected the new
calendar so ok fine they did reject the
new counter because they believed it was
the one Jesus used it's created problems
Protestants anywhere else ok
no so we know that Protestants were
rejected the new calendar so they wanted
to keep the old calendar ok cool but
because they believed it was the one
Jesus used it doesn't the passage
doesn't mention anything about the
reason why Protestants rejected the new
calendar it just says that they rejected
the new calendar so the answer is can't
oh we don't it says that they rejected
it but we don't know why so we don't
know the reason why so it's can't tell
next question
tax men in the UK are not Catholics
because they have not accepted Pope
Gregory's new calendar and still start
the new tax year on April 6 there's a
lot of information in this question the
important things men take away our tax
men in the UK are not Catholics and then
this is a reason because Paolo blahblah
so let's just determine first if tax men
in the UK are Catholics or not the only
place tanks men are mentioned is at the
very end today only the UK tax man uses
the old New Year's Day condor to start
the tax year ok this doesn't tell me
much about whether they're Catholic or
not so I'm gonna go with can tell
nothing in the passage tells me whether
this is a true or a false statement I
don't know it just says that the UK tax
man uses the old New Year's Day I don't
know if he's a Catholic or not because
of that using two different calendars at
the same time made it very difficult for
traders and people who travel between
countries okay so where is that mention
here this created problems for trade and
other contact between two countries okay
using two term constant I made it very
difficult for traders and people who
travel between countries has created
problems for people who travel with
other contacting countries seems pretty
reasonable to me seems to match the
passage so I'm gonna go with true let's
move on to passage two so again I'm
gonna read the passage fairly quickly
and try and retain as much information
as I can and then we'll move on to the
question part so passage Joan of Arc
burned as a witch in fourteen is two
different hero she was born as a family
in a village during Hundred Years War
the English were invincible friends like
the King I was hiding in western France
Henry the whatever King of France 12
months completed 817 s by the French
army organization dolphin to relieve
siege really successful of my setbacks
come to the burgundians soul to the
english condemned as a witch even so
Jones was the madacorp influence from
supernatural experiences seeing visions
and angelic voices superstitious stead
of visions resulted and others that she
was affected by mentally by eating time
and grain a third views hallucinations
okay rational expansion of assigned
people had a lifetime believing their
visions it's a neighborhood to change
the course of history okay
so Joan of Arc is called the maid of
Orleans after the place where she was
born
so unrelieved the siege of Orleans so I
don't know why she's called the Joan of
Arc Oh where she was born
it says she was born to a family in dumb
rain in Lorraine okay so I don't know if
DOMA in Lorraine is in New Orleans or
not so I'm gonna click can't tell
okay so Stacy she was born into a
peasant family in the village of DOMA in
Lorraine and so it's false because here
it say she was born in New Orleans we
know she was not born and she was born
in Lorraine so false next question 20:31
at least two different people came to be
the King of France
so here 1431 French hero invincible
friends like the king and he claimed his
own life things changed okay so if this
guy claimed to be the King of France
then that means someone else was the
King of France so that means two people
were claiming so true so as believe that
Joan was able to inspire the French
armies they believed her when she said
she had seen visions so yeah visions
tried and condemned as a witch because
of her visions he was dramatic she
claims he visions a superstitious age
accepted this okay so people accepted
that she was seeing visions so true
they sold jokes they needed money to
ransom the Duke I remember ten thousand
so sold to the English for ten thousand
do we know why no okay so she was sold
to the English true for ten thousand
things but we don't know the reason why
here it says for money for ransom
whatever but we don't know if that's the
reason so can tell okay this is so
stressful okay I'm gonna try and take a
more slow approach to this one and talk
about my reasoning on my thought process
going through each question as opposed
to just rushing through and trying to
get the answer right Roman passage one
of the glorious English spring survival
depends on the balance energy seed
energy expended okay
so questions male Robins do not maintain
a territory in the winter so here it
said the male draw been encouraging time
from the trend of marking out a
territory okay it doesn't say anything
about winter summer and spring or autumn
so I'm gonna go with can tell I just
know that they do have to defend the
territories or it's a it's marking out a
territory but I don't know about the
time of the year okay next question the
size of a Robins territory depends on
the amount of vegetation in it I don't
remember anything about vegetation when
is plentiful defense territory balance I
don't remember anything about vegetation
so I'm gonna go with Kanto the passage
doesn't tell me anything about
vegetation and how it relates to the
territory so can't tell when it's windy
birds do not sing something about the
bird wind dropping weak we may notice
bird song more at this time because the
things are quieter when the wind drops
so when it's windy birds do not sing
I guess birds sing more when there's no
wind but does it mean that they don't
sing when it is windy
I don't know I'm gonna go with can tell
for this and I'm gonna check it after so
for this question here when it's windy
birds do not sing so what I should have
realized is that birds do not sink it's
a very strong statement it says this
question is saying that if there's any
wind birds don't sing ok so here it says
that things are quieter when the wind
drops it's quieter when there's no wind
which means that they're still singing
when there is wind
it's just louder you know so this
statement that birds don't sing when
it's windy is false I got that wrong
okay next question
Robins are aggressive to all other birds
so this question is a very broad
statement it says all other birds so if
we find anything that breaks that huge
statement we know it's false so
aggression aggression aggression
aggression aggression aggression I'm
gonna go with can tell I don't see
anything about aggression so can't tell
okay so next passage this one is about
Boxing Day and okay so these questions
are different than the true/false are
can't tell questions these questions
you're going to receive for statements
and you have to do with what the
question tells you so this question says
which of these assertions is best
supported by an information in that
passage so you need to choose the
question that is true I guess the answer
sorry that is true
okay so let's read the passage people
spend Christmas Day and worst of all
things Christmas from boxes on Boxing
Day okay question which of these
assertions is best supported by
information the passage so which of
these statements is true so Boxing Day
was a late addition to the list of bank
holidays legalized in 1871 all I take
away from this question is 1871 so I'm
gonna skip to the part of the passage
where 1871 is which I know was at the
beginning in certain one British
government legally establish Boxing Day
as a public holiday was a late addition
to the list of bank holidays game I
don't know if there was multiple bank
holidays or not so I'm gonna cross out a
Boxing Day gets his name from the coffin
which Saint Stephen was buried all I'm
gonna take away from this is st. Stephen
it's good the passage st. Stephen is
here working day was originally held on
st. Stephen's Day okay what's the origin
with the name no one knows story of st.
Stephen nothing about a coffin so I'm
gonna go without be Boxing Day was on
the day in which Saint Stephen was put
to death okay when did he die Bible
stories because charity Saint Stephen
you're smarter okay nothing about him
dying so I'm gonna skip see so at this
point like I've skipped a B and C DS
probably the correct answer but I should
still read it just in case if I read D
and I realize it's definitely wrong then
I should go back to a B or C so D boxing
day was the day when Trish shiny boxes
were emptied okay Church has opened
their charity boxes just beauty gifts to
the poor people okay that sounds pretty
good when churches open their day open
their charity boxes and dispute a gift
so they emptied their boxes so I'm gonna
go with B okay next question so going to
the passage which of these explanations
of the origin of the name Boxing Day
need not involve a literal box okay so
which of these statements does not
involve a box and I know that all of the
explanations are in the last paragraph
so that's the only place I'm going to
look service for you to give the food
from their employers on Boxing Day
serving the servants servants servants
servants disputa give support with
servants employers give them a box of
food so there is a box so a is wrong
tradesmen called on their clients hoping
to receive a tent
that doesn't sound right I remember
anything about tradesmen and your trades
people called on customers and received
the cash tip okay okay that doesn't that
doesn't say anything to do with a box so
I'm gonna go with B cuz it's saying
which of these does no involve the
liberal box this just says that they
receive the cash tip called a Christmas
Box it was only called a box they didn't
receive a box so there you go answer is
B let's just check Cindy just quickly
just to make sure
chardee was collected and disputed by
churches on boxing game this box is I'm
actually not sure it to be honest but I
know the B is definitely this definitely
doesn't involve a box so I'm gonna go
with B even though I'm unsure of C and
that's something you can definitely do
if you're sure of an answer you almost
don't need to check the other answers
but I kind of do it just for closure but
if you're sure of an answer and you're
stuck for time just go for it or the
rest of the responses next question
which of these is not associated with
Saint Stephen in the passage charity
more to the preaching and Christianity I
remember more did them for sure st.
Stephen somewhere here since even after
the Christian martyr okay charity the
whole passage is about charity and
Stephen so definitely not that one
or is it let's check the other answers
preaching Saint Stephen Saint Stephen
kitchen kitchen kitchen I don't know
Christianity st. Stephen was a Christian
martyrs it's okay so Christianity and
martyrdom are the question preaching on
charity preaching preaching the Saints
even ever preached or does he do charity
just not associated with Stephen so we
know charity and Christian sorry
Christianity and martyrdom are
associated together here Christian
martyr and then charity I just ready
here Stephen on charity so preaching is
what's not associated with Stephen okay
next question the best source for
learning about Saint Stephen is the
story recorded in the Bible they said
most explanations are on the Bible but
we're not
sure okay the Kyle Good King doesn't say
anything about learning about Stephen he
just disappeared shiny 1871 long nothing
about learning st. Stephen how Boxing
Day is celebrated today I don't even
know if we talked about that so the
story recorded in the Bible
here it says most explanations are based
on the Bible story about Stephen okay so
probably the Bible one then if most
explanations we know are based on
stories about him in the Bible then you
can probably learn something by him in
the Bible let's read the passage is this
the first question yeah how old must an
individual be distinguished from they've
been whisper proved by sighted in any
given time okay cool question one the
most likely inference that can be drawn
from the passage is that English common
law presumes that children aged between
7 and 13 do what of these things so
let's find that part first 7 and 13 so
we said under 7 they're not responsible
if I'm correctly in above 14 they are
responsible okay where is that under 7
are incapable and children above 14
possessed capability okay let's see will
not perform any action that might be
regarded as criminal okay it says here
that according to English criminal law
they are criminally responsible at 10 so
a is not true they can be regarded as
criminal should be punished they're
guilty of performing a criminal act I
don't remember anything about yeah I
don't remember anything about people
being punished see have the mental
development to accept full criminal
responsibility definitely no I just sit
there houseful for their own actions
answering any consequences when
I have the mental development to accept
full criminal responsibility but stays
here Oh children under seven are
incapable of criminal action okay
tonight 14 possess this capability but
at present criminal law says they're not
acceptable tasks fulfilled own actions
became not sure about scene we'll begin
to understand those actions which are
socially acceptable okay that was later
else earlier on something turn children
children main officers for moral
responsibility but they can be prior to
behave in ways approved by society at
any given time so you can understand
actions which are socially acceptable at
any given time and I think that's the
right answer so that one was a bit
tricky because these three first
questions all have to do with these two
paragraphs and then the lots are those
three main responses have to do with
these two paragraphs then the last
response has to do with this paragraph
so there's a little bit tricky but I
think the answer is B here okay next
question
conclusion that might be drawn from the
passage is that there's evidence to
suggest that criminal responsibility law
should be changed okay
pretty fair children under seven in
England are better behaved than those
over 14 there is definitely no
comparison between 7 and 14 and their
behavior so no age of criminal
responsibility in England is too high it
just says that other countries may vary
the minimum in the u.s. is different in
Iran it's different but it doesn't say
that it's too high or too low it just
says that they're different so I'm not
gonna go see the law and around to each
boys less very favorably than it does
girls in Iran it is 9 for girls and 15
for boys so the boys are treated the
lawn around treats boys less favorably
here they can
criminal 15 so actually treats them more
favorably so it's the opposite for D so
I'm gonna go with a there's evidence to
suggest that the criminal sponsibility
law should be changed yeah because
they're kind of presenting like a
foreign against whether children can or
cannot understand or accept full more
responsibility so it seems like there's
an argument for that somewhere next
question which of these assertions is
best supported by comments made in the
passage scientists are better informed
about types of criminal responsibility
than lawyers I don't think it says that
just say the science talks about
decision making something totally
different different countries view of
views of different countries views about
the appropriate age of criminal
responsibility vary this is 100% true
like I read this and I know here we talk
about different countries and how
they're different for the different ages
that they say children should be
accepted for criminality so I know B's -
I'm not even gonna read CND B makes
perfect sense here next which of these
assertions is not supported by comments
made in the passage not support it focus
on the word not they're gonna try and
catch you out with this all the time
make sure you focus on this not here
which of these is not supported by
comments made in the passage English
common law and criminal law make
different statements about the age of
criminal responsibility that's true
English common law and English criminal
law and they're different talking about
in this paragraph so that's true some
people are convinced that children do
understand the difference between right
and wrong that's also definitely true
they say it down here pretty sure that's
true we might come back to it some
countries to be boys and girls deafening
with you suing your property age we know
that from the Iran case that we talked
about a second ago so I don't even need
to look at the passage children under
seven who performed criminal actions
understand what they have done and ought
to be punished children under seven no
we said the opposite children under
seven are incapable of criminal action
to inability to appreciate the concept
of wrongful behavior
[Music]
okay next question
oh this a new passage should I do one
more passage yeah why don't extra
passage bonus mean if anyone gets that
reference definitely of a comment in the
comment section
okay so bonus mean bonus passage let's
see there are many simply tolerated
conditions at which they work again I'm
like flying through the passage but I'm
really really trying to take away as
much as possible that I can pretty
general ideas but still I think I can go
back to the part of the passage which is
relevant to the question once I read the
question so first question some fashion
companies manufacture their products and
other countries because workers are more
skillful no labour laws are non-existent
they did say something about now there
are no laws of this protect children
okay possible raw materials are cheaper
more workers are available and source of
cheap labor so not cheaper materials I
think I'm gonna go with labor laws
aren't I don't know if it's non-existent
though they have no laws in place okay
so non-existence seems fine I'm gonna go
at B next question the fashion industry
exists because so many people wish to
appear attractive okay
owners of fashion companies are good
entrepreneurs no magazines advertised
the many fashion companies are
multinational okay sounds pretty good so
many people wish there appear attractive
many dilemmas I'm telling you they're
scientists problems
Blonsky most great illusion perfect
bunny and everyone should strive but
deal stress on people to look this way
so I'm gonna go day so I read this
question and there were four responses
pretty like I read it sounds pretty good
I read B no the passage mentions nothing
about companies being good entrepreneurs
I don't even need to worry about that
magazines advertised clothes cleverly
also doesn't really talk about clothes
it talks about like the skinniness of
models and things like that many fashion
companies are multinational I remember
multinational being men
here many multinational families
relocate to us developing countries but
this has nothing to do with why the
fashion industry exists so almost
without even looking at the passage I
determined that it was a but I double
check just to be sure these questions
that you're kind of confident in that
you feel like you have the right answer
this is a good time to go with your gut
just choose it and move on might be
worth going with your gut and using that
time the more precious precious time on
more difficult questions that you're
unsure of third question using the
evidence in the passage which of the
following statements is supported there
is an ideal body type for men and women
no it's saying that people feel like
they need to see an out of your body
type so no everyone which does have the
ideal body type it says it puts a lot of
pressure on people to strive and and
deal like this but I don't think we can
say everyone advertising in magazines is
ineffective definitely not true
many of these advertisements and
magazines have an enormous impact so
note the fashionistas so I've already
I've already said no to a B and C so I'm
expecting me to be right let's read it
and find out the fashion in suit creates
the idea that there's an ideal body type
I don't even need to read the passage
this is 100% true Thanks question which
of the following would be a moral
dilemma affecting the modern fashion
industry where does it talk about model
more glam where to talk about dilemmas I
know remember let's see how can we make
more people fashionable how can we
promote fashion without creating medical
problems that sounds pretty good that's
what the whole first paragraph is
talking about how can we influence more
young people through magazines that's
like a money-making thing not moral
dilemma how can we manufacture clothes
more efficiently doesn't really talk
about the efficiency of manufacturing
clothes just talks about cheap labor so
I'm gonna go with B but let me double
check the price to talk we promote
fashion by pitting medical problems yeah
because it talks about here for weight
and eating disorders so what a moral
dilemma would be for them to still
promote their products and their
lifestyles but without creating these
medical problems so I think that's a
pretty good one okay guys I think that's
a I'm not gonna do any more passages I
think five is enough and this video is
already gonna be super long
paid at this point in the video thank
you so much for watching I hope you
enjoyed this video I hope you found it
useful please leave me a comment down
below giving me feedback on if you want
me to change a little bit of how I'm
explaining or I'm going through the
questions anything that you think might
improve these videos please leave a
comment down below ask me anything you
want feel free to message me follow me
on my Instagram subscribe to the YouTube
channel like this video and yeah guys
more videos from me coming soon I'm
really enjoying this and I hope you guys
are too I hope you find this useful and
yeah I'll see you guys in the next one
peace